assignments/final.md, before:

---
layout: page
active: assignments
title: "Final Project"
auto-title: true
---

## Dates

Dates to watch out for:

- Meet with instructor during lab to finalize project choice Monday 11/13

- Submit short (1-2 paragraphs) description of project Friday 11/17

- Required in lab project check-in: 11/27 and 12/1 (should be able to demonstrate some progress on the project)

- Final project demos in final exam time period

## Project Description

For the project description, you need to submit a 1-2 paragraph written description of your project.
You will need to include a brief overview of the project and a list of the project’s goals.
Be sure to think about and include information on such topics as:

- what kind of data is necessary for your project (what is the input data type and output data type)

- where you will be getting any data you may need

- what resources/references you will use or may need

- how the user will interact with your program and what you will ultimately display/render.

Please include any references you have already found.
In general, the format of your project description should include:

- Introduction: general description of the project

- Goals: list of what your project will accomplish (this can be a bullet list)
  (you do not need to include a timeline, but I encourage you to think about a timeline and include it if you’d like).

- **Highlight what graphics technology you will either be deepening your knowledge of or expanding your knowledge of.**

- Any references

Feel free to include any figures that will help illustrate your project if relevant.
For ideas for a project, consider looking at all the past class projects or at the SIGGRAPH website for past papers, sketches and courses.

## Project

Please note that you will need to submit the source code, executable, and relevant data related to your final project to Github Classroom before the scheduled final time.
In addition, you will need to submit a webpage documenting your project (include project description, results images, and references on the webpage).
All of these will be due the day of the final project presentations and will be turned in via Github Classroom.
You will be doing an in class 5 minute presentation of your project – demonstrating the accomplishments of your project to your peers and the professor.

Projects will be classified as: easy, medium or hard.
An easy project can earn at most 90 points, a medium project can earn at most 100 points, a hard project can earn 110 points.

General point break down:

- **10** Project proposal and write-up
- **10** Progress check-in (these act as multipliers on your grade or either 1, 0.5 or 0)
- **70-90** Project completion, demonstration, and webpage

Commit message:

Some additional info on hand-in for final project

assignments/final.md, after:

---
layout: page
active: assignments
title: "Final Project"
auto-title: true
---

## Dates

Dates to watch out for:

- Meet with instructor during lab to finalize project choice **Monday 11/13**

- Submit short (1-2 paragraphs) description of project **Friday 11/17**

- Required in lab project check-in: **11/27** and **12/1** (should be able to demonstrate some progress on the project)

- Final project demos in final exam time period

All dates are also on the course schedule.

## Project Description

For the project description, you need to submit a 1-2 paragraph written description of your project.
You will need to include a brief overview of the project and a list of the project’s goals.
Be sure to think about and include information on such topics as:

- what kind of data is necessary for your project (what is the input data type and output data type)

- where you will be getting any data you may need

- what resources/references you will use or may need

- how the user will interact with your program and what you will ultimately display/render.

Please include any references you have already found.
In general, the format of your project description should include:

- Introduction: general description of the project

- Goals: list of what your project will accomplish (this can be a bullet list)
  (you do not need to include a timeline, but I encourage you to think about a timeline and include it if you’d like).

- **Highlight what graphics technology you will either be deepening your knowledge of or expanding your knowledge of.**

- Any references

Feel free to include any figures that will help illustrate your project if relevant.
For ideas for a project, consider looking at all the past class projects or at the SIGGRAPH website for past papers, sketches and courses.

### Hand-In

[Submit your final project description via GitHub Classroom at this link.](https://classroom.github.com/a/jQQ4yoA9)

The following formats are acceptable:

- PDF (`.pdf`)
- Markdown (`.md`)
- Plain text (`.txt`)


## Project

Please note that you will need to submit the source code, executable, and relevant data related to your final project to Github Classroom before the scheduled final time.
In addition, you will need to submit a webpage documenting your project (include project description, results images, and references on the webpage).
All of these will be due the day of the final project presentations and will be turned in via Github Classroom.
You will be doing an in class 5 minute presentation of your project – demonstrating the accomplishments of your project to your peers and the professor.

Projects will be classified as: easy, medium or hard.
An easy project can earn at most 90 points, a medium project can earn at most 100 points, a hard project can earn 110 points.

General point break down:

- **10** Project proposal and write-up
- **10** Progress check-in (these act as multipliers on your grade or either 1, 0.5 or 0)
- **70-90** Project completion, demonstration, and webpage

### Hand-In

[Submit your final project code via GitHub Classroom at this link.](https://classroom.github.com/a/xgcY92-a)
