assignments/lab08.md, before:

---
layout: assignment
assignment: "lab08"
title: Lab 8
---

**Objective:**  implement pitch and yaw and play with FBO effects.

### Orientation

Your main task is to implement a pitch and yaw camera using the MatrixStack `lookAt` function to control the virtual camera.
The base code includes a scene with several models positioned in a circle around the camera.
Try using the `a` and `d` keys and you will see that the camera can rotate in **Y** to look around at the models.
There is also an interesting image based effect that if you click the mouse and scroll the scene will rotate in **Y** and the models will look blurry (more on this in task 2).

![Lab 8 Figure 3](lab8_3.png)



## Task 1

Write code for a pitch and yaw camera.
We will be using the lookAt function included in the MatrickStack to control the **view matrix**.
Please adjust your code (including your vertex shader) to include a view matrix and
pass the matrix created by the lookAt function to your shader for use as the view matrix.

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-sm-6">
    <img src="lab8_1.png" alt="Lab 8 Figure 1" class="img-thumbnail" />
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-6">
    <img src="lab8_2.png" alt="Lab 8 Figure 2" class="img-thumbnail" />
  </div>
</div>

**1)**
Use `glm::lookAt` to generate a view matrix.
Replace the global rotation with this matrix and test the functionality.


**2)**
Now use mouse input to control the pitch and yaw of where the camera is looking.
Keep the eye position fixed and modify the "look at" point.


**3)**
Pitch will be controlled by the angle `phi`, map this to the **y** motion of the mouse.
When the user clicks and drags, this motion changes the angle.


**4)**
Yaw will be controlled by the angle `theta`, map this to the **x** motion of the mouse
When the user clicks and drags, this motion changes the angle.

Given a pitch and yaw angle, you can compute the 'look at' location by:

```cpp
x = radius*cos(phi)*cos(theta)
y = radius*sin(phi)
z = radius*cos(phi)*sin(theta)
```

Please carefully think about what `phi` and `theta` should start out as,
and for coding, convert the degrees to radians (if necessary).
Think about how `phi` and `theta` should change as you continue to move the mouse and "look around."



## Task 2

Notice that in the base code there is a variable `Moving` that when set,
changes the render of the scene to appear blurry.

![Lab 8 Figure 4](lab8_4.png)

This is making use of first rendering to a frame buffer object (think of this as an image of the rendered scene)
and then texturing that data onto a quadrilateral,
but first processing the input image by computing an image blur (only in the horizontal direction).

Look at the code in `main.cpp` and the associated shaders to make sure you understand what is happening.
Next replace the current effect with an alternative effect:

 * motion blur
 * Gaussian blur
 * a bloom effect
 * or any other creative effect to show you understand the process).

Commit message:

Make Lab 8 due date policy more clear

assignments/lab08.md, after:

---
layout: assignment
assignment: "lab08"
title: Lab 8
---

But, only the **Camera** aspects are due on the due date.

The remaining FBO aspects are due on **Wednesday 3/7**.

---

**Objective:**  implement pitch and yaw and play with FBO effects.

### Orientation

Your main task is to implement a pitch and yaw camera using the MatrixStack `lookAt` function to control the virtual camera.
The base code includes a scene with several models positioned in a circle around the camera.
Try using the `a` and `d` keys and you will see that the camera can rotate in **Y** to look around at the models.
There is also an interesting image based effect that if you click the mouse and scroll the scene will rotate in **Y** and the models will look blurry (more on this in task 2).

![Lab 8 Figure 3](lab8_3.png)



## Task 1

Write code for a pitch and yaw camera.
We will be using the lookAt function included in the MatrickStack to control the **view matrix**.
Please adjust your code (including your vertex shader) to include a view matrix and
pass the matrix created by the lookAt function to your shader for use as the view matrix.

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-sm-6">
    <img src="lab8_1.png" alt="Lab 8 Figure 1" class="img-thumbnail" />
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-6">
    <img src="lab8_2.png" alt="Lab 8 Figure 2" class="img-thumbnail" />
  </div>
</div>

**1)**
Use `glm::lookAt` to generate a view matrix.
Replace the global rotation with this matrix and test the functionality.


**2)**
Now use mouse input to control the pitch and yaw of where the camera is looking.
Keep the eye position fixed and modify the "look at" point.


**3)**
Pitch will be controlled by the angle `phi`, map this to the **y** motion of the mouse.
When the user clicks and drags, this motion changes the angle.


**4)**
Yaw will be controlled by the angle `theta`, map this to the **x** motion of the mouse
When the user clicks and drags, this motion changes the angle.

Given a pitch and yaw angle, you can compute the 'look at' location by:

```cpp
x = radius*cos(phi)*cos(theta)
y = radius*sin(phi)
z = radius*cos(phi)*sin(theta)
```

Please carefully think about what `phi` and `theta` should start out as,
and for coding, convert the degrees to radians (if necessary).
Think about how `phi` and `theta` should change as you continue to move the mouse and "look around."



## Task 2

Notice that in the base code there is a variable `Moving` that when set,
changes the render of the scene to appear blurry.

![Lab 8 Figure 4](lab8_4.png)

This is making use of first rendering to a frame buffer object (think of this as an image of the rendered scene)
and then texturing that data onto a quadrilateral,
but first processing the input image by computing an image blur (only in the horizontal direction).

Look at the code in `main.cpp` and the associated shaders to make sure you understand what is happening.
Next replace the current effect with an alternative effect:

 * motion blur
 * Gaussian blur
 * a bloom effect
 * or any other creative effect to show you understand the process).
